## US Primaries Election Analysis
---

This repository contains an analysis of the 2016 United States Primaries Election, focusing on predicting whether Donald Trump received more than 50% of the votes and clustering counties based on their demographic characteristics. The analysis includes the use of five distinct methods and eight distinct models were created for predictive modeling and an explanation of the clustering methodology through the economics variables related to the voters.

To be more precise, in this analysis, we worked on two parts of a problem related to the 2016 US Presidential Election. In the first part, we developed a predictive model to classify whether Donald Trump received more than 50% of the votes in the Republican primaries. We employed various classification techniques such as **Logistic Regression, Decision Tree, Naive Bayes, Support Vector Machines, and K-Nearest Neighbors (four distinct models). We evaluated the models using various statistical measures, including accuracy, precision, recall, lift and roc curves, auc values and brier score, and compared their performance. In the second part, we applied clustering techniques to group the counties based on demographic variables and used economic variables to describe the clusters. We used hierarchical and K-means clustering algorithms and performed ANOVA-based variable selection to improve clustering analysis. Finally, we profiled the clusters based on their characteristics.

---

### Introduction - Description of the Problem
The problem consists of two parts. The first part is to develop a predictive model that classifies whether Donald Trump received more than 50% of the votes in the US Presidential Election based on the 2016 primary election results from the Democratic and Republican parties. The second part is to cluster the counties based on their demographic characteristics using certain variables, and then describe the clusters using economic variables. The report will utilize at least three distinct methods for the predictive model and there are no constraints on the clustering methodology. The objective is to provide insights into the effectiveness of various modeling techniques and their ability to predict electoral outcomes accurately.
